
The Secret Life of Salvador Dali
First posted: 16/07/2022

I was to begin my secondary studies, and for this I was sent to another religious school,
that of the Marist Brothers. At this time I claimed to have made sensational discoveries
in the field of mathematics which would enable me to make money. My method was simple.
It was this: I would buy five-centimo pieces with ten-centimo pieces for each five that I was offered
I would give ten in exchange! All the money that I could obtain from my parents I would immediately spend in this way,
taking a frenzied delight in the game which was incomprehensible to everyone and inevitably ruinous.
One day when my father made me a present of a duro (five pesetas), I rushed out to change
it into ten-centimo pieces, which made several marvellous piles! As soon as I got to
school I triumphantly announced that on this very day I would open my market to buy
five-centimo pieces on my usual conditions.

So at the first recreation period I took up my post behind a little table, and with great delight
I arranged the coins in several piles. All my schoolmates gathered round me, eager to realize the promised exchange.
To the consternation of everyone I actually gave back ten centimos for every five I was offered!
My money spent, I pretended to go over my accounts in a secret little book which I put back preciously
in my pocket, securing it with several safety pins. After which I exclaimed, rubbing my hands with
satisfaction, "Again I've made a profit!" I then Bot up from my counter table and strode off,
not without having first cast a contemptuous glance around at my schoolmates, with an
expression which poorly concealed my joy, as if to say, "Once more I've put one over on you! What idiots!"

This money-buying game began to fascinate me in an obsessing way, and from then on I
canalized all my activity toward obtaining as much money as possible from my
parents on the most varied pretexts for buying books or paint;
or else, by displaying such exemplary and unusual conduct that it warranted
my asking for some monetary reward. My financial needs grew, for in order
to consolidate my prestige it was necessary for me to exchange more and more
considerable sums; it was the only sure way of amplifying the sensational
astonishment which steadily spread around me at each new exchange.